This is an interview with Mr. Bob Kuhn by Syed
Haider on April 25, 1989, concerning the Vietnam
War. In the interest of accumulating knowledge
about the war, I'm going to donate this tape to the
Texas A&M Oral History Collection in the
University Archives. Is that all right with you?
Yes.
Mr. Kuhn, can you tell us how and why you joined the
military? Can you include a brief sketch of
military career before Vietnam?
Oh, I joined the Army and, uh, December 6, 1960,
I was drafted. I volunteered my draft. I was
looking to just take two years and get back out. But
after I had served about a year, I decided to make
the military my career.
Can you tell us something about where you went to
college? I've only got a few credits in college and
stuff. When I was in the military, I went to school
and stuff like this because I needed this to get my
promotion to my next higher grade. So I went to NCO
Academy, different type of school, a few credit
hours here and there, but no college.
When did you first go to Vietnam? The first time I
arrived in Vietnam was in May of 65, the 173rd.
in Okinawa, was ordered to move from Okinawa to
Vietnam as an action force. But after a few months
there, Johnson decided to make the 173rd a
permanent change of station. And we were
stationed in Vietnam. But I had orders to come back
home in August. So I came back in August of 65,
served about a year in 82nd Airborne, and turned
around and went right back to Okinawa in 67.
I arrived back in Vietnam in February of 67 as a
special forces advisory team, what they called a
Bravo team. building Spatial Forces A camps for
the Spatial Forces from north to south. That was
from the north end of Vietnam to the south end of
Vietnam. When I arrived in Vietnam, I started at
the north end building Spatial Forces camp and
airstrips and things like this for the Spatial
Forces. Then I moved from there to Canto to build a
floating camp that we built. And then we moved from
there to... another camp, and we built a wall for
during the floods in the Mekong that the camp would
not be flooded. Then I left Vietnam then for, I
served about eight months. I came back in August
again, and I left Okinawa in 69 and served about
another year back in the States with the 82nd
because I've been a paratrooper. I turned around
and went right back to Vietnam. This time it was an
actual tour in Vietnam because the other times
that I was there was considered as a TDY tour, and my
time there did not count. So this time that I was
going back in 60, in 71, was an actual Vietnam
assignment from the government branch. Okay,
then I served a year. That was my years, what we had
to serve in a combat zone.
When you went to Vietnam the second time, did you
notice a change in the attitude of the American
forces there from their attitude when you first
were there? I
think it was about the same. It was a little bit
different than most of the people that was there. I
guess the people, once that they got accepted, the
military especially, they just accepted it as a
tour. So they accepted their job in being in the
military as a duty. There was maybe some that
wasn't, but most of the time I didn't meet people
that objected for being there. And some in cases,
we had people stay three and four years as
volunteers to stay there. So in other words, some
people liked it and some people didn't. What do you
believe was the reason for American involvement
in Vietnam? The government, I think, asked after
France had lost to them. And we also had advisory
there starting in 65, or long before the 173rd was
moved there, that we had advisories and MACV units
there advising the Vietnamese troops and
government about the war. And then 65 was when
Johnson moved, actually put American forces in
Vietnam.
Can you reflect on some of the problems you
encountered while you were in Vietnam? For
example, did you see people who had problems with
abuse of drugs or alcohol? Yes, there was a lot of
that going on. They had their little groups. Just
like in your ethnic groups, even in Nam, they...
You had your ethnic groups, your Puerto Ricans
stuck together, your blacks stuck together, your
potheads or your people that use drugs. Even in
those groups, they mostly stuck together and done
everything as their own ethnic groups. Because
the type of job I had at the time then was not a combat
MOS. It was a maintenance MOS. And so I stayed
around in camp. So in other words, the people,
mostly for what I seen in Nam at that time, was,
except for in 67 when I was more in a combat type
field, that the troops were mostly ethnic
oriented. In other words, when the blacks would
raise their hands, the Puerto Ricans had their own
little things to do off of what the blacks had.
They'd do this. And they'd do different things
that, you know. There was a few white guys that
could pick it up, but if they associated them
within, because they were smoking pot or they were
taking drugs, mostly that I know of, the big thing
that a lot of the troops were doing was mostly
smoking the pot. You could find a lot of these bags
and things of pot around the buildings. Anything
after payday, a lot of times they'd go buy it. And
they'd smoke it. And that's how they stuck
together. Like I said, most of them was just ethnic
groups. So you did not associate yourself with
other ethnic groups? I associated with them, but I
was not part of them. In other words, my job as an NCO
or a sergeant within the Army, I associated with
them, but I was not part of their group because I
could not be part of their group and be an NCO.
Unless I wanted to go ahead and smoke the pot and be
like them, then I could do it. Then you could be one
of the fellas. For all the time that I was in Vietnam
and stuff like this, I had no urge to take drugs or
smoke the pot because I looked at it as a Christian
and stuff like this, that it was not good for your
body and things like this to be doing this. Plus, I
wanted to come back from Vietnam a full person
because you don't know what some of this stuff
would do to your body. How do you think were the
blacks treated in Vietnam? I think the blacks are
treated about like everybody else. I mean, it was
probably, as I said before, that it was probably
another victory for them because of their
involvement in Vietnam and losing their lives
just like the Americans were in other wars and
stuff like this. They were segregated into their
own little groups were in Vietnam. or this type of
combat more, they were associated with more of the
Americans. So they approved themselves. In other
words, some of them got medals of honors and was
awarded medal of honors. They may not be here to
have the medal, their parents have it, but they
sacrificed their lives to save other American
lives, the blacks. So the blacks and whites
associated freely in Vietnam? Right. There was a
few problems maybe, but like I said, they stuck to
their selves. even though they knew that they had
to still be together. Like I think in any type of
combat situation, you can have your different
ethnic groups, but in a situation when you go to the
field as a military involvement action,
everybody works together because everybody has
to look out for surviving. So they work together.
While the American soldiers were fighting in the
jungles of Southeast Asia, do you think it was
right for many other Americans to protest against
the war? Well, I guess that would have to go back to
the freedom of speech. I mean, I didn't think too
much of people being back here while I was over
there to me as being a military Fighting for our
country and these people back here protesting the
war, like I said, their opinions and my opinions
are different, so everybody has their views of the
war. So if that's what they wanted to do, I guess,
you know. Our government is often referred to as
the, and I quote, government of the people, by the
people, and for the people. In 1971, a Harris poll
showed that 71% of those questioned thought we had
made a mistake by sending troops to Vietnam in the
first place. 58% regarded the war as immoral, and a
majority favored pulling all our troops out of
Vietnam by the end of 1971, even if that meant a
communist takeover of the country.
The Nixon administration continued the bombing
and killing even after this. Do you believe it was
right for a democratic government to go against
the will of the majority when the dissent was so
obvious? The political people back here
thought we shouldn't be in Vietnam. And after a
while, I guess, the government, Nixon, as you
said, started pulling the troops out, or had
started planning on pulling out the troops in Nam.
And so he had so much political pressure put
against him because we were not going anywhere in
Vietnam.
So as you stated within your paper, even though we
were going to pull out, that we were not going to
support the people no longer, and it would turn
into a communist country, which is what really
happened after we moved out. Because after we
moved out in 73, the North Vietnamese, the Viet
Cong, actually just because of us leaving, the
people no longer, the fighting people tried for
what I think about another, Not too long after we
pulled out, they didn't fight too long, and the
country was given up, and the whole country was
taken over. President Eisenhower in 1965
had believed that if Vietnam went to the
communists, then the rest of the Asia would fall,
and I quote, like a row of dominoes. almost 15 years
after the Vietnam went to the Communists, we did
not see many Asian countries falling to the
Communists. Do you believe that President
Eisenhower was wrong by exaggerating the extent
and the importance of Vietnam?
I think what Eisenhower said could have possibly
happened. It all depends on how after North
Vietnam and Red China, wanted to push things after
they took over North Vietnam and supported the
North Vietnamese. If they felt more strongly of
taking other countries like they are right now, I
think we still have problems in Cambodia and
different places like this that they're trying
to... take over. So part of this is still might be
coming true. It's not a big thing going, even
though just North Vietnam was the only one that was
taken over and it became communism.
Do you feel that Americans understood the culture
of South Vietnam and the Americans had the ability
to speak for the South Vietnamese people? Were we
really trying to do what... I think we were trying
to do what we were required to do with the country,
but it became such a political thing after a while,
after so many years of us being in NAM. And we were,
as I always looked at too, for the United States
being as big as we were, that we could not go and do
certain things. There was a lot of things... we
couldn't do in Vietnam because of orders like we
couldn't put ammunition or something like this in
the weapons and you're in a combat zone in certain
areas. These were pretty cool things. These
people all looked alike over there so if you're
going to protect yourself, why should I have a
weapon on me but I cannot put ammunition in it and be
ready for any type of thing that might happen
because All their people looked alike to me over
there. Even the person that could, a lot of times we
had the same problem, that we had the people from
Vietnam were double agents. They were working
both sides of the fence, as you can call. Some of
them would, since they, you know, they would work
for us and they also worked for the Viet Cong, they
were double agents. And they were also troops that
were double agents. would work and we had sent out a
lot of people a lot of times and our people got shot
in the back because of the other people so you could
never tell it uh
so did you all have a hard time distinguishing the
enemy right you would have a hard time
distinguishing the enemy because they all just
like when you even if he was talking about the
japanese now they would be a little different
because we did not support the Japanese like we did
the Vietnamese, that we were fighting them so we
knew who we were fighting. It would be kind of
difficult also during World War II when you were
fighting Germans. German people look like us. If
they put clothes on or put uniforms on like us and
could talk our language,
we could accept them as the Americans and they
could go right in and be enemy people. Where in Viet
Cong or Vietnamese, we were over there working
with them alongside them. We did not know if we were
working alongside a Viet Cong or a good person. So
it was a hard situation. I think especially in some
of the jobs that we had, You couldn't trust the
people. I had good friends over there. I made good
friends with a lot of people over there. But still,
I think there were still cases where people
couldn't trust them because of knowing other
people had turned or found out they were double
agents.
Mr. Coon, what do you believe was the cause of
America's loss in Vietnam? I think we really
didn't lose in Vietnam. Yeah, we lost a lot of lives
and things, but we were there for the government,
our government, working along with the
Vietnamese government. And after it became such a
political type thing that we were not going
anywhere, and it was a big expense for us being
there, that the government just decided to pull
our troops and American forces back out of
Vietnam.
Yes, we pulled out, and a lot of our troops looked at
it as a war we never won. So in other words, that
could be what they're saying, what you just said,
was that a loss, which it would be a loss. It was
something we never completed. Why do you think
that happened? Why do you think the government
pulled out the troops? The American peoples back
here just thought that we shouldn't be there after
a period of time. It was just a big, big thing. And
most of it was political. I was just serving in the
military, so really I did not get involved with
looking why the government sent me there. I did not
ask questions of why the government sent me there,
because I was in the US military in an army. That was
my job if they sent me there. The times they sent me
there are different times. They sent me there, it
was my job, so I went. But when they asked me to come
back, I came back. I mean, I felt bad that we'd come
back. Well, really, I wasn't there at the time they
started pulling them out. But I looked at it as
being at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and was
hearing on the radio news that Nixon had started
pulling troops out of Nam. I think most of it was
just a big political thing. And re-election and
things like this were coming up, just like when
Eisenhower was getting re-elected or was
elected, he was pulling troops out of Korea and
things like this. And so that helped him get,
because people favored
that, so they went ahead and elected him. But Nixon
had promised in 1968 that he's going to pull out the
troops very soon. But after that, he continued the
bombing of North Vietnam, and America is said to
have dropped more bombs on North Vietnam than
bombs dropped in the entire World War II on
Germany. So do you think that Nixon kept his
promise of withdrawing from Vietnam as soon as he
had said he would? Like he said, he was talking
about pulling them out, but I think he still looked
at it that we had an obligation to the country, the
Vietnamese, the country he was supporting. And
then he did start really pulling them out until
about five years later, I think. He pulled them out
in 1973, was actually when we started pulling the
troops out of Vietnam.
that I think, like you say, it was a political war,
and so he was just waiting the right time to pull
them out. I mean, as they always said, like you
said, that they dropped more bombs there, but a lot
of those bombs, when they dropped, did not hit
solid ground, and the reason they don't explode
was because they go into the ground, and they're
sitting over there, and a lot of the bombs may not
even have exploded because of the rice paddies
they drop into, and those rice paddies are real wet
and they had to get away of letting these bombs
drop. So it was just a money-making thing, I think,
too. There was other people involved. Many
critics of the Vietnam War say that we had become so
obsessed with fighting communism that we
violated the very principles of our own
democratic government, the principles that the
American forefathers had thought the country was
going to stand on. For example, Nixon and Johnson
had lied to the American people a lot of times. and
the CIA was misused for the surveillance of the
domestic problems and that was not the intention
of the CIA when they made that agency. So do you
think all these actions of the American
government can be justified?
I guess by being in the business that Nixon and
Johnson are both in and they're the highest
office, they used their facilities like the CIA to
accomplish missions that probably in no other
unit you could probably accomplish. We had even
your other forces would have your espionage out
there doing the same thing we did. So if we got other
countries out there doing the same thing, even
though by political law or war, it was just mostly
that through
the government that they actually said they
violated the misuse of those units just because of
that. If it had been an actual combat situation
where it would have been really like it was in World
War II in Korea or something, they would probably,
nobody would have probably said anything about
using that unit as what they were doing, I think.
But because it was not, Vietnam was never
considered as a war, it was more of a policing
action, more like Korea except we did a little
different in Korea that I think that what they did
would probably not have been even nothing would
have been said about but since it was not an actual
type situation it just became political and these
were type of things that they did just so that they
probably people bring out like they're doing
anything when you're up for elections you get out
the dirty you get out your dirty weapons and those
were things that they they bring up saying that to
bring against these people If the Vietnamese
culture were to be similar to the American
culture, and if the Vietnamese people looked like
the American people, do you think it would have
been much more easier for America to accomplish
goals in Vietnam? In other words, do you think
there was a cultural conflict in Vietnam? I don't
think there was a cultural conflict. I just think
that the government there asked our government to
assist them
in a situation of not being, coming under
communism, and the Viet Cong were being supported
by Red China and different things like this, even
by Russia. Weapons and stuff were being sent to
Vietnam through the Hanoi and different things
like this. The only culture thing was, as you work
with these people, especially if you, working
like I was in Special Forces, and you went out with
the units like the Mike Force or a Ranger outfit,
that if you went out there with these people, you
did not know whether you were taking good people or
were you taking a nipple trader. And otherwise, I
think the culture or the people got along with the
Americans, in fact, They thought real highly of
the Americans until we started pulling out. And
then they felt real bad that we pulled out and left
them. Did you talk to any of your... Did you have any
Vietnamese friends? Yes. Did you talk to any of
them while America was pulling out of Vietnam? I
was not there when they were pulling out because I
left in 71 and they did not pull out until 73. But
I've... ate with them and things like this when I
was in Spaceship Forces and different things like
this. And they're just like me or you.
Even if the guy was a double agent, if he had no
intentions of killing you and was just there for
mostly intelligent purposes, he could be just as
good a friend as anybody as long as you didn't know.
So you could work alongside with anybody. What do
you think about the South Vietnamese government?
A lot of people have criticized the United States
for supporting a very despotic government that
was really, you know, ruled the Vietnamese people
with the iron hand. they had corruption in their
government, but the United States was supporting
them, people say, because they just wanted to
fight the greater evil of communism. Do you
believe that the South Vietnamese government was
really corrupt? On that, I can go along with that. I
think the Vietnamese government was corrupt.
They, because... They would take anything the
Americans were giving away.
Gave them, like I said, we supported them in monies
and different things like this. We supported them
in equipment and things like this, ammunition,
guns. And we supported them. And you had a lot of
people in their political government that abused
what, especially your higher ranking officers in
the government or anything like that, in the
military. Yes, and they abused their people. I've
seen this, but like you say, we were only there for
the purpose of them asking us to support them in a
cause that we felt that would benefit the United
States in the longer run that Vietnam not become
communism. But after a period of time, people and
the judgment of the people decided that we were it
was a losing call since we've been here close to 10
years or more and nothing was going on like you said
we've been dropping bombs and had dropped more
bombs and uh on uh in Vietnam than we dropped in
World War II and it was a losing call so why keep
doing this and not be going gaining any footage And
then when the United States moved out, a lot of
their people and their higher-up government in
different places like this are now living in the
United States because they can no longer stay
within Vietnam because once the country was taken
over, either the people would do them in or the Viet
Cong or the Vietnamese or Red China or whoever came
in would actually physically put them in prison
and re-interrogate them to become a communism.
which is what they do now. They're trying to
rehabilitate their captured soldiers over
there. They're in school and they sit around and
have to go attend a class, mostly of it is in
communism, stating what the Vietnamese
government wants them to do. Did you encounter
anybody who was associated with the Viet Cong? Did
you talk to anybody who was... There was one time
when we were working and when I was in Special
Forces and I was there in a camp and we were
building, like I said, we were building Special
Forces camps and we hire civilians or people to
come in and work alongside us and help us build.
This also was supporting their economy to help the
people out in those areas. We were paying... the
out people, they were not military, but they were
civilian people, Vietnamese people, to come in
and work alongside us to build these special
forces camps. And there was one time when we were
there that word was out that one of the guys that was
there was a double agent. He was there, he was
wearing white pajamas, but when he was there
during the day, The reason why we noticed that he
was more on the other side was we started noticing,
because we have people watching our people when
we're out there, and I guess he must not know
somebody's watching him, and he was pacing off
from bunker to bunker, and the time he left there,
because we let him go until the end of the day. At the
end of the day, we kept him and found out that he
was... under interrogation and asking him that he
was a hardcore Viet Cong agent that was sent in to
infiltrate and find out our
dimensions of the thing. So if he'd left there that
night, most likely that night, we'd have probably
been mortared severely. And he would have had real
bad casualties because he would have been able to
tell him exactly where to shift their guns and
stuff or their mortars when they come in exactly
right on our bunkers and things like this. So what
did you all do with that guy? Well, he just became a
prisoner after that. Then we interrogated him,
and then after that, by a policy of the American
government, we called in a chopper because we were
sitting out in the middle of nowhere. We called in a
chopper and sent him back for higher-up
interrogation, and that's where, actually,
physically, they more did the interrogation.